My ideas (for a Brazilian History glossary) in january 2015

1. To do a projection to Brazilian history after 1930 of
  MENTA. message from 1/24/15.

  The biggest gain of MENTA is that it uses Gerard's amazing
  algorithms to disambiguate entities in several languages so, for
  instance I just checked "descoberta do Brasil" which worked
  beautifully
  http://www.lexvo.org/uwn/entity/e/fr/D%C3%A9couverte%20du%20Br%C3%A9sil
  as did Independência do Brasil e/Brazilian Declaration of
  Independence but as you can see if you follow the links the top one
  comes via French and the bottom one via English, even if both have
  texts in Portuguese where the glosses are just perfect for thesaurus
  i.e.


  My suggestion is use the 1000 entries of the DHBB that are not
  biographies as query searches in MENTA and then look at the named
  entities on those. 
  (more recently I discovered that I can simply use the book on Historia do Brasil suggested by wikipedia)


  Create a new corpus and a thesaurus consisting of these entries,
  keyed into an RDF store, as a helpful companion to the DHBB.  We
  then would have to read the whole thing and check that it's really
  all sensible (this would be a good test for Gerard's work
  too). since there are several of us this shouldn't be too much work.

--------------------

2.  A gente download a wikipedia em portugues, e usa os titulos das
  entradas do DHBB (7.500) como search queries pra
  wikipedia. coleciona todos os artigos que aparecerem com esses
  titulo e escolhe o primeiro paragrafo como sumario.

  numa segunda etapa a gente passa esse novo corpo pelo Freeling and
  faz o mesmo trabalho que a gente fez pro DHandES de olhar as coisas
  que aparecem mais e usamos as entidades mais frequentes pra fazer
  uma outra busca na wikipedia. nessa segunda etapa devem aparecer
  entradas da wikipedia sobre Minas Gerais, Ipiranga, "Palacio do
  Catete" etc que nao teem (eu presumo) entradas proprias no DHBB.

  desse jeito a gente constroi um tesauro automatico de historia do
  Brasil que precisa ser chequado por gente de verdade. dai a gente
  le e verifica.  

  vcs conhecem algum "limpador de wikimedia" que transforme o dump da
  Wikipedia em .txt?
  
---------------------------
3. at that stage I thought:

  But I think that simply getting the DHBB again through Freeling
  (without being able to use NE lists) won't do us much good.  It will
  clean up things a little (we won't have the few female historians
  counting as figures of Brazilian history) and we might be able to
  get some better temporal information, but without better
  disambiguation of entities, it won't be a big improvement. 
  
Alexandre thought this was our step number 1, and he and Fabricio did it a while back.
The result is online, but not officially so and officially *not* to be used.
so a new corpus is necessary.

-----------------------

4.  wikidata (que e' ser o substituto do Freebase) tem um template pra biografias.
  titulo proposto: Analyzing a Biographical Dictionary (or Building a
  Thesaurus from a Biographical Dictionary)

 (lrec 2014): “BiographyNet: Methodological
  issues when NLP supports historical research”:
  http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2014/pdf/1103_Paper.pdf

 http://www.opener-project.eu/getting-started/: worth checking out? 

-----------------------

5.  Dario tinha uma versao fazendo NER usando Stanford e uma usando
  so' o FreeLing, mas nao sei se temos uma copia do texto marcado
  dessas duas formas no dropbox. seria realmente bom tem uma versao do
  raw DHBB usando o OpenNER, mas so' com as duas primeiras ainda temos
  chance de escrever alguma coisa legal se usarmos o program que a
  Claudia sugeriu de concordancias. 


